// title=Gleam
// icon=gleam
// max=23

Personal solutions to the [2025 Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/2025) using Gleam 1.13.
This will be my first contact with this language.

Each day is resolved in its own file inside `src` and runs
the related `input/day_<day>.txt` file to resolve the problem.
It also contains a test for every example that can be checked
with `gleam test`.

In order to execute a day solution run `gleam run -m day_<day>`.
For example:

```sh
gleam run -m day_01
```

// completion=start

1:2
2:2
3:2
4:2
5:2
6:2
7:2
8:2
9:1
10:1
11:2
12:1

// completion=end

## Afterthoughts

- **Day 01**: Ok, I am loving this one. Functional language with
a Rust-like syntax instead of the something painful like Elixir's.
Sign me in.
- **Day 02**: While I like my solution, there's probably some optimizations
that can be done and solve the "slowness" a bit. Mainly regarding all
the parsing and serialization back and forth.
- **Day 03**: It's so pleasant when you easily adapt the logic for both parts...
- **Day 05**: Love when I can foresee improvements that they will probably ask in part 2.
- **Day 07**: Set operations and dict optimizations, the real good shit.
- **Day 08**: 14 piped functions babeeee.
- **Day 09**: Part one was... extremely trivial? And then part 2 was my first skip this year.
I thought I had a good idea that worked for the test but it didn't for my input and I
don't have the spirit to fight my input corner cases.
- **Day 10**: <3 XOR. Quite happy with the reduction from 44s to 8s I got implementing breadth
first search for the first five levels too. Giving in part 2 too tho.
- **Day 11**: I love when I think of multiple solutions and the parts allow me to explore
both. Here I went starting from the back and the front, both really fast options.
- **Day 12**: First time where I just concede to having the lucky input and not even
completing the example.
